_pages/causes.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Causes
type: static
---

Influencing concentrated power requires collective action grounded in community, education, and equal access to knowledge and context. Meaningful change in a global context depends on cross-cultural solidarity and collaborative systems.

## Taiwan

- [左轉有書 Tò-uat ū tsheh Culture](https://touat.com.tw), [support](https://2016.taiwanrebels.org/joinus/): Human rights, Transitional justice, Gender equality, Labor justice, Environmental justice, Democracy, Civic agency.
- [好民文化行動 Cosmopolitan Culture Action Taichung](https://www.ccat.tw/), [support](https://www.ccat.tw/civicrm/contribute/transact): Transitional Justice, Civic participation, Collective actions, Human Rights, Language Accessibility & Cultural Diversity.
- [經濟民主連合 Economic Democracy Union](https://www.edunion.org.tw), [support](https://www.edunion.org.tw/捐款資訊/): Economic justice, Democratic sovereignty, Anti-authoritarianism, Public accountability, Social equality.
- [原住民族青年陣線 Indigenous Youth Front Taiwan](https://www.instagram.com/indigenousyouthfront.tw/), [learn more](https://insight.ipcf.org.tw/article/404): Indigenous rights and reparations for indigenous people in Taiwan.

## International

- [Médecins Sans Frontières](https://msf.org): Human rights, Humanitarian aid, Refugee health, Medical access.

## Tech

- [NV Access](https://www.nvaccess.org/), [support](https://www.nvaccess.org/support-us/) (also on [GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/nvaccess)): Accessibility, inclusion.
- Build and publish openly, keeping the web independent from platform control.
- Improve substrate for the web to support well-designed, equal-access applications.

Commit message:

Add The Reporter to causes list

_pages/causes.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Causes
type: static
---

Influencing concentrated power requires collective action grounded in community, education, and equal access to knowledge and context. Meaningful change in a global context depends on cross-cultural solidarity and collaborative systems.

## Taiwan

- [左轉有書 Tò-uat ū tsheh Culture](https://touat.com.tw), [support](https://2016.taiwanrebels.org/joinus/): Human rights, Transitional justice, Gender equality, Labor justice, Environmental justice, Democracy, Civic agency.
- [好民文化行動 Cosmopolitan Culture Action Taichung](https://www.ccat.tw/), [support](https://www.ccat.tw/civicrm/contribute/transact): Transitional Justice, Civic participation, Collective actions, Human Rights, Language Accessibility & Cultural Diversity.
- [經濟民主連合 Economic Democracy Union](https://www.edunion.org.tw), [support](https://www.edunion.org.tw/捐款資訊/): Economic justice, Democratic sovereignty, Anti-authoritarianism, Public accountability, Social equality.
- [原住民族青年陣線 Indigenous Youth Front Taiwan](https://www.instagram.com/indigenousyouthfront.tw/), [learn more](https://insight.ipcf.org.tw/article/404): Indigenous rights and reparations for indigenous people in Taiwan.
- [報導者 The Reporter](https://twreporter.org), [support](https://www.twreporter.org/donation/period): High-quality independent journalism for public benefits.

## International

- [Médecins Sans Frontières](https://msf.org): Human rights, Humanitarian aid, Refugee health, Medical access.

## Tech

- [NV Access](https://www.nvaccess.org/), [support](https://www.nvaccess.org/support-us/) (also on [GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/nvaccess)): Accessibility, inclusion.
- Build and publish openly, keeping the web independent from platform control.
- Improve substrate for the web to support well-designed, equal-access applications.
