---
layout: post
title: Phases
---

A month has passed, this is 2013.

If you've met me you would know that I don't have much faith in myself.
I'm not saying I'm the lousiest designer developer ever lived; I'm saying I know my place, I know there are people below, and above.

Problem being... I aim too high. I aim as high as I can see, so there is this constant frustration and sorry feeling for myself. Upside is, I gradually started to accept my own mediocrity.

---

You know how when we were in schools, there were always this group of people who say: "I know I'm smart, if I study hard I can get good grades. I just don't want to. - so it's not that I'm stupid."

In life we see, and you must have heard, but just to make a point: 
> Genius is one percent inspiration, ninety-nine percent perspiration.

I learnt to understand and accept the fact that, I might not be dumb, but I am certainly not hard working enough to get good grades. The big discovery here is, lazy is the new dumb. It's genetic defect, you don't get to fight through it. You're either able to put in the efforts, or you're not.

---

So I have disppointed myself many many times. I know probably most of people have, too.
Now what happens is, I expect myself to be disappointing, thus I started to set lower expectations.

---

Started from the beginning of 2013, I've been being this person I've always wanted to be, I've done things I've always hoped to do but never actually did, because I was simply too lazy and too undisciplined. 

I am not sure about what has gotten into me, but somehow, this first month of 2013 I managed to achieve a lot. 

Regardless of how much I hated to admit, the beginning of a year seems to actually have some significance, a magical time when everyone can gain this imaginary boost of hope and motivation. 


I joined a gym, started to be sufficiently veggie wherever possible, I go to sleep at a proper time, cook and bring to work as much as possible, not buying things I don't need, write as much code as possible, and learn, lots.
This is very surreal. It had never seen possible to myself that there would be a time when I can actually be the diligent person I've always hoped to be.

---

> But you ought to disappoint yourself.

As mentioned, I joined a gym, and I wish the less people know about it the better. Because I'm probably going to quit, and you just don't introduce your summer lover to the whole family. I don't want to feel the guilt for quitting eventually, especially when quitting is what I'd expect myself to do in the near future.  If no one's mentioning it, we can just pretend it never happened and quietly move on.

I had an awesome month, but it's only a phase. I am sure I won't be keeping this up in April.<br />
Do not think I'm this new person now, cause I won't be for long, I will quit no matter how glad I'm finding out I could this person.

2 months later from now, possibly after I quit all these stuff, having said the above words, when I am faced with the possible scenario where people may ask me: "I thought you were veggie?", "I thought you go to gym constantly?", "I thought you were learning Emberjs?" I can say: 

No, I told you so, I knew I won't keep those up.

---

> Hey, you can quit, it's alright cause I don't expect any better from you.

The whole thing is quite conflicting. 

Of course I don't want to be this person who quits all the time, but then why expect something when you know you'd be disappointed?
So I try to express things lightly, like how people pretend not to care about the things they love.

I have always think it is stupid to try and fail. I know it's bad, but still. <br />
I would still try, for that I want to grow, but I'll do it silently, in a corner far away from the crowd. 

I want you to not see any of the struggling so I can put up a graceful shield. 

---

{% include copyin.html %}