---
layout: post
title: Burnout
date: 2013-02-22 00:37:43
---

Enjoying coding is a wonderful thing. 

I am at this phase when I want to spend every second of every day in code. There are just so much to learn, so much more wonderful stuff waiting for me to explore, and I want to know them all. 

Have you been there? then you know what I mean.

Needless to say it is not a good place to be if you can not pull yourself away and let your brain rest a bit every now and then. That is why my head feels like a balloon now, it's bloated and there's nothing tangible inside. So I decided I'm going to write a blog post, as a way to keep myself from staring at yet some more code; afterall writing human decodable words should in comparison be way better than trying to understand some non-debuggable code.

I cannot help but feel like it would be a huge waste not to go all in when one feels as motivated as I feel now, you cannot get motivation with a snap. The urge is like playing a video game, there's no need to eat or sleep, there's no hands off the controller, and when you suddenly come around, it's 4 in the morning.

It's intense, what we do, it burns you out.

I'm not at all a disciplined person, I let myself do what the heart desires. The ideas of how one should and could optimise efficiency have very little influence on my behaviour. This is just the time in life when I want to code all day, and  that is what I am going to do!

Unfortunately, turns out you cannot just do that. 

After a few days in, my brain started to shut down at a certain point, it stops being effective and actively gets in the way of the work I want to do. Bloody annoying that is.

So I'm here to write, write to think, and to 
<pre>shell||brain pause -f # ... really?</pre>


It feels wrong though, the fact that this forced pause means taking the time to rest but still try to utilise every productive second to produce, instead of letting some of them just pass by, allowing some time to be bored. 

Things need to change. I'm going to Liverpool next weekend, not at all relevant, but, yeah.

It's past midnight. Good night.