---
layout: post
title: Taiwan, ?
---

Hi! Are you an open source project maintainer, wondering whether or not you should merge that pull request, proposing to change **Taiwan, Province of China** to **Taiwan**? 

This will only take a minute, allow me to help you make that decision.

---

**Disclaimer**

I am a Taiwanese, and I hold one passport, a Taiwan(R.O.C.) passport.

---

Most geographical libraries import a country list from ISO, so the most common reason people uses push back on such pull request, is:

> **We are simply following ISO standard, and we want to be very unpolitical.** 

But the truth is, Taiwan is included as a province of China **because of its political status within the United Nations**.

So you can see how it makes no sense to say that you are being unpolitical by following a result of politics.

Dropping **Province of China** and leaving **Taiwan** is the most unpolitical decision you can make on this issue. Taiwan is the name of the island, and also the name people use to refer to the place, **whether as a state or as a country**. Anyone who argues otherwise is most likely carrying political intention.

---

If you are favoring other arguments, and/or you don't care about being unpolitical, let me just present you with some (political) facts:

1. Indeed the P.R.C. has been going around saying Taiwan is part of China, and because of its political status, people tend to agree with them. But the truth is, the mainland China and Taiwan have two completely separate/different sets of political/postal/financial/socioeconomic system. Just one of many examples, Taiwan is democratic, while P.R.C. is communist. (Hey no one will be taking your internet away in Taiwan.)

2. The people who will be reading and choosing that field will be Taiwanese, and I believe no one holding a R.O.C. passport considers Taiwan a province of China(P.R.C.), a completely different country.

3. As a Taiwanese, I will be personally offended to see *Taiwan, Province of China*. I believe consciously making it this way is an awful thing to do. I have rage quitted numerous services for exactly this reason.

There are active petitions going on urging ISO to change the false standard, but as you can see, it has so far gotten us nowhere. We are fully and painfully aware that there will be endless PRs proposing this change to send, but it is by far the easiest way to make a big difference. 

There is just a tiny effort on your part. <br />
So click that big, green, welcoming button, dear developers.
