---
title: Note
layout: default
open_heart: true
date: 2025-07-31 16:09
location: Taipei
tags: 
  - Technology
lang: en-US
---

I’m kinda sad about how people are now moving to linktree-like services. In Taiwan there’s portaly which also has shop and newsletter services it seems. The web experience is getting worse and worse *however* I do see the utility that they provide. This is not new to other industries—like the mass production of everything. The craft becomes a luxury. I guess this feels particularly bad because surfing and creating on the web should not be a luxury.

I don’t think I could make a case for people not to use these services. It is a lot more expensive to build one from scratch matching the features. It will be better overall, but does the cost justify it? Very unlikely. It is especially the case because most people are not aiming for something that works for as many people as possible, which means performance and accessibility will be neglected. And that leads us into a situation where 80% of the websites are barely passing grade. It’s sad.

So I guess perhaps the problem is, why is the cost for building a good website, with features that basically all people with a platform will want, so damn high now? The building blocks of the web are still primitive. I’m not talking about React-Window and command palettes. I am talking about the cost of running a secure service, the cost of knowing how to build an accessible and performant website, the cost of running your own ops.

The building blocks are being improved (?) for the FAANG (?) developers and not for the hobbyists who might never go to a tech conference but face the most people as clients.
