---
title: Note
layout: default
open_heart: true
date: 2025-04-14 14:38
location: Taipei
tags: 
  - Mental health
  - Technology
lang: en-US
---

Therapy notes:

There is a closed circuit in my mind. My therapist wants to help open. 

I don’t care to live life like a marathon because anything longer than what it needs to be is a waste of time and energy. In the effort to live this marathon of a life as a sprint, I don’t stop for hydration. Seems unwise given it is literally not a sprint; but it makes sense in my closed circuit of a logic—I can make it a sprint by collapsing earlier.

Same reason why I thought about all the benefits to smoking cigarettes. The main thing stopping me is the fact that I like to keep my good set of teeth. 

---

We talked in depth today about (the lack of) ethics in tech and progression on AI therapy. She was shocked to learn that AI would help me determine the dosage to OD but is quick to stop itself from talking about Gaza. We also talked about how our inability to deconstruct consciousness stands directly in the way of considering sentience in AI.

I have been with my therapist since the end of 2020. She is a retired professor who continues to publish papers, works on advocacy in the field, and is on the ethics board of the primary counseling association in Taiwan that pushes for regulatory changes. I am really so lucky to be working with her. 

Her experience has allowed us to talk about my accessibility advocacy work and desire to contribute to the standard bodies and made me feel truly understood and supported in the causes. 

Way more than “just therapy.”
