---
title: Note
layout: default
open_heart: true
date: 2025-08-13 23:04
location: Taipei
tags: 
  - Politics
lang: en-US
---

It’s gonna soon be 38 years since the end of 38-year martial law in Taiwan. Touat Books is hosting a number of events and I made a simple site for them to display many well-known designers’ poster design for the occasion. https://timelessfreedom.tw

The other day my friend hosted a jubliee style discussion between pro-recall and anti-recall people who are all her friends. They are so stereotypical, the anti-recall folks. One thing that consoled me was—it doesn’t matter who wins a debate or sided with the majority, on our side, we are all pouring our heart out trying everything to help. I’ve worked in the government, am a member of a 3rd party, donate to NGOs working on transitional justice and education, and I volunteer my time doing all kinds of activism. A new friend on the same side works on TV shows about Taiwanese history and hosts a podcast discussing white terror. The friend who hosted this event had even published a fiction about local history and trauma. We were able to say things with confidence because we did them, we know them, we found out. 

Why do we think TPP legislators are terrible? We called their offices. They have no answers and could only take a message. DPP legislators not only have detailed answers but also got experts to call me back and explain things further. Why do we think KMT couldn’t lead? I saw what they did in the government. 

So at least I have a clear conscience that my beliefs are all tried and true, and that people by me all landed on the same conclusion because we all went and found out. These are the people I want to side with, not the ones who took certain politicians words as the golden rule.
