---
title: Note
layout: default
open_heart: true
date: 2026-06-03 10:37
location: Berlin
tags: 
  - Technology
  - Hobby
lang: en-US
---

On again about LLM: [What’s left to say](https://deadsimpletech.com/blog/whats-left-to-say) by Iris Meredith

I don’t really like this post, but it did pointed out something that I agree has been left out of the conversation; Slop has always been there, and people like it. Market is doing what market does.

I know, shocking!

The strive for creativity, ingenuity, quality wasn’t mainstream and it is becoming more and more niche.

I agree with the author on some of the exhaustion, but I disagree on who gets called “great luminaries” since I don’t think it’s possible to be great without being critical externally and internally. 

But alas. This might interest some of you. I’d have to admit I stopped around the LinkedIn stuff and skimmed the rest.

On using creativity though, I did notice I have done a series of posts on GenAI and that is, vapid, so please let me also point out some things I have been doing offline:

- I have two rolls of film photos developed, soon to be uploaded. I am delighted to say I think I am getting better at photography. I thank my friend Erica and Coral Fustero for sharing their work and making me see how emotions come through the shutters.
- [@jlord](http://jlord.computer) visited me in Berlin and we had a nice stationery and design filled weekend. I taught her how to cast resin dice, and she taught me how to make a nice box using book binding methods. 
- I have been trying to draw things, inspired [Marcel](https://marcel.io/dailies). Although it’s going slowly, I have experimented a few times and is getting less and less intimidated by the idea.
- Pottery remains a lovely activity that I want to do multiple days a week if life didn’t get in the way. I burnt my hands last week, and is just now recovering. I hope to head to the studio to glaze my many thrown items.
- Planting flowers, weeding, thinning seedlings. 
- Why has no one told me how much fun staining wood is? I’ve gotten some regular pine and aspen objects, ranging from a step stool to a toilet plunger. They transform and have so much more character after staining! I also waxed an old Indian made sheesham wood box from the flea market, and it has come back to life!

Probably more to list, but suffice to say, I have been doing things with my hands and trying creative things despite the topics dominating my notes.
