---
title: Note
layout: default
open_heart: true
date: 2026-06-04 16:30
location: Berlin
tags: 
  - Technology
lang: en-US
---

“You’re too focused on AGI,” someone said to me quite some time ago when I was showing my skepticism around LLM.

I started reading about everything around LLM because of the hype train, because of the hyperbolic statements the AI overlords were spewing (“AGI”), because how the hype reached the non-tech, the vulnerable. I fucking hate it when people who get half-million AI paychecks telling me to just dismiss the hype. I sure can, but not the non-technical, vulnerable people–those who can easily get manipulated or fear-mongered into submission and give up their privacy and agency.

I have got really used to thinking about these tech hypes from the perspects of my dad, who is excited about progress but knows little outside of his expertise. He is open-minded and is eager to keep up, but when the media is saturated with bad information it is incredibly hard for him to decipher. Sure we all need media literacy, but some folks aren't as fluent. Are they supposed to suffer?

Hype is why the line goes up. Hype is why it’s sucking money out of the rest of the economy. Hype is how despicable industry practices are tolerated. I am anti-AI because how it creates hero worship, fanatics, and massive abuse risks. 

We absolutely need to be anti-hype.

I don’t want to hear all the arguments like “but it’s good for _____,” it is irrelevant to what I am standing against.

_The devil has enough advocates_. Being a centrist when the power is already massively imbalanced makes you an accomplice.  

---

I just read a stupid article. Sorry I have to vent.
