---
title: Note
layout: default
open_heart: true
date: 2026-05-27 23:56
location: Berlin
tags: 
  - Technology
lang: en-US
---

Recently [The Prime Time](https://youtube.com/@theprimetimeagen) landed in my YouTube algorithm because of AI… if you’ve been following along you’d know that I spent late last year making dice while half paying attention to Turing Award winners dunk on AGI, and now the tech content has got into my video consumption feeds fixed with murder and cult investigation documentaries. 

Since I’m no longer _working_ _in tech_, this has become a rare and cherished avenue for me to reminisce and feel somewhat relevant.

I just watched a video by him reading about [GitHub Performance Improvements](https://youtu.be/Xhsf6e93Ec0) blog post, and I just want to add so much context since I have all these stale/leftover institutional knowledge about GitHub frontend that I don’t think will be needed anywhere else anymore.

Since I’m not gonna email him (ha), I just want to make sure that folks know that—it was HTML; react rewrite was post 2021 or even later, I don’t know, I left before I would need to see our work get dismantled; react was pushed back by our team—@github/js, for so many years, until we can’t anymore and everyone from the pre-pandemic left, and the React floodgate opens. HIRABILITY, they shout. 

I care so much about this history, still to this day, for so many reasons. To get to work with excellent people on a tool that many of my peers love and use daily and mostly importantly, learn so much and have this experience basically changed my whole life’s trajectory.

I very consciously try to stop myself from talking about this, but let me have this one ok? Thanks.
